OSDOCS-10396:ANP audit logging (#75310)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/nw-anp-np-reference.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * networking/openshift_network_security/logging-network-security.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE
[id="nw-anp-differences-networkpolicy_{context}"]
= Key differences between AdminNetworkPolicy and NetworkPolicy custom resources

> 

Reviewer: I would recommend adding a short abstract explaining the table. looks a bit odd going right from the heading to the table.

[cols="1,1,1"]
|===
|Policy elements | AdminNetworkPolicy | NetworkPolicy

|Applicable user
|Cluster administrator or equivalent

> |Developers within namespaces

Reviewer 2: A
```suggestion
|Developers within namespaces
```
Tenant owners, namespace owners, application developers either of this works.

|Scope
|Cluster
|Namespaced

|Drop traffic

> |Supported with an `Deny` action set as a rule.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|Supported with an explicit `Deny` action set as in a rule.
```

> |Supported via implicit isolation of target pods.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|Supported via implicit DENY isolation at policy creation time.
```

> |Skip enforcement

Reviewer 2: oops I just saw the preview,
please make this:

"Delegate traffic" to match with row above and below with deny and allow

|Supported with an `Pass` action set as a rule.
|Not applicable

|Allow traffic

> |Supported with an `Allow` action set as a rule.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|Supported with an explicit `Allow` action set via a rule.
```

> |Supported with an explicit `Allow` action set via a rule.

Reviewer: You have three different ways of phrasing here - "set as in a rule", "set as a rule" and "set via a rule". I don't have a strong feeling but whichever you choose, I'd standardize them

|The default action for all rules is to allow.

> |Implicit isolation

Reviewer 2: I think you can remove this row because you covered it in DENY row

|No implicit isolation
|All rules have an implicit isolation of target pods.

> |Rule precedence

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|Rule precedence within the policy
```

> |Depends on the order in which they appear within an ANP.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|Depends on the order in which they appear within an ANP. The higher the rule's position the higher the precedence.
```

|Rules are additive

|Policy precedence

> |Among ANPs the priority field sets the order for evaluation. As a tier 1 ACL policy, ANPs are enforced before any `NetworkPolicy` objects.

Author: not valid in this instance.

> |Among ANPs the priority field sets the order for evaluation. As a tier 1 ACL policy, ANPs are enforced before any `NetworkPolicy` objects.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|Among ANPs the priority field sets the order for evaluation. Lower the priority number higher the policy precedence
```

> |They are enforced after ANP and before BANP. The are evaluated in tier 2 of the ACL.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|There is no policy ordering between policies
```

> 

Reviewer 2: Insert another row as "Feature precedence" and add under ANP column, evaluated first via Tier1ACLs (BANP is evaluated last via Tier3 ACLs) and for netpol you can say "They are enforced after ANP and before BANP. The are evaluated in tier 2 of the ACL."

|Matching pod selection

> |Can apply different rules to multiple groups of pods.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|Can apply different rules across namespaces.
```

> |Applies rules to a single group of pods.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Can apply different rules across pods in single namespace
```

> |Rule identifiers

Reviewer 2: hmm I don't understand this row

Author: gone

|Unique within an ANP and the a name is per rule in string format.
|Not supported

> |Cluster external traffic

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|Cluster egress traffic
```

> |Not supported

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|Supported via nodes and networks peers
```
This is now supported, so might as well change this? OR you want to do this with nodes and networks peers?

Author: Updated to: Supported via nodes and networks labels.

Reviewer 2: I'd say peer is the right word -> pod peer, namespace peer, node peer, network peer label is not quiet right we don't use labels for networks. @JoeAldinger

> |Partially supported through IPBlock

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|Supported through IPBlock along with exceptcidr syntax BLAH -> goal here is to again show the explicit DENY that we do :)
```
hmm why is this only partial support? did you see it in some doc?

> 

Reviewer 2: Add another row for "cluster ingress traffic" -> not supported for both
Add another row for "fqdn peer support" -> not supported for both (for ANP this might come in future releases hence asking to add before we forget; some users are already asking)

Author: What does `fqdn` stand for?

> |Supported via `nodes` and `networks` peers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Supported via `nodes` and `networks` peers.
```
Seems like you are adding trailing periods to these

> |Supported via `nodes` and `networks` labels

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|Supported via `nodes` and `networks` peers
```

|Namespace selectors

> |Supports advanced selection of Namespaces with the use of `namespaceSet`field

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|Supports advanced selection of Namespaces with the use of `namespaceSet`field
```

hmm there is no namespaceSet field, did you mean `namespaces` with labels and expressions or something?

> |Supports label based Namespace selection with the use of `namespaceSelector` field

Reviewer 2: Netpol doesn't have a "namespaceselector" right? can you double check the API docs in K8s?

Author: It looks like it does for [ingress](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/network-policies/#:~:text=namespaceSelector%20and%20podSelector%3A)

|Namespace selectors

> |Supports advanced selection of Namespaces with the use of `namespaces.matchLabels` field
> |Supports label based namespace selection with the use of `namespaceSelector` field

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Supports advanced selection of Namespaces with the use of `namespaces.matchLabels` field.
|Supports label based namespace selection with the use of `namespaceSelector` field.
```

|The default action for all rules is to allow.

|Rule precedence within the policy
|Depends on the order in which they appear within an ANP. The higher the rule's position the higher the precedence.
|Rules are additive

|Policy precedence
|Among ANPs the `priority` field sets the order for evaluation. The lower the priority number higher the policy precedence.
|There is no policy ordering between policies.

|Feature precedence
|Evaluated first via tier 1 ACL and BANP is evaluated last via tier 3 ACL.
|Enforced after ANP and before BANP, they are evaluated in tier 2 of the ACL.

|Matching pod selection
|Can apply different rules across namespaces.
|Can apply different rules across pods in single namespace.

|Cluster egress traffic
|Supported via `nodes` and `networks` peers
|Supported through `ipBlock` field along with accepted CIDR syntax.

|Cluster ingress traffic
|Not supported
|Not supported

|Fully qualified domain names (FQDN) peer support
|Not supported
|Not supported

|Namespace selectors
|Supports advanced selection of Namespaces with the use of `namespaces.matchLabels` field
|Supports label based namespace selection with the use of `namespaceSelector` field

> 

Reviewer 3: @JoeAldinger Really like this table.
@tssurya Would it make sense to add a row about peer evaluation in ANP and BANP?  Unless it may open up can of worms.

Reviewer 2: let's do it at a later stage if need peer? for now let's try to get the crux in
